What happens when you initialise a repository? Why do you need to do it?

With "> git init", a hidden folder is created, called ".git". This folder (1) marks that this is a tracked folder and contains all the necessary data to ensure version changes can be managed.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

The staging area operates as a clearing house, to gather the files, in order that the user can make explicit decision about what constitutes the next commit. The staging area is the middle ground between the working directory and the repo - it means you can a second chance if you change your mind.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

By using "git diff" and "git diff --staging", the user can compare changes and confirm the differences between working directory, staging area and the most recent commit. The staging area allows review and confirmation that the commit will be one logical change.

What are some of the situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organised? How would branches help?

Maitaining versions, adding new features, refactoring code; implementing alternative approaches to solve problems, all while keeping a workking master branch

How do the diagrams help you visualise the branch structure?

By providing a full ancestry of parent-child relationship between commits, and showing links between branches i.e. where a new branch may have been created from the master or other existing branches

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

Commits from the branches are interleaved into the checked-out branch. This interleaving is based on date/time of the commits. 

What are the pros and cons of Git's automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

Automatic merging pros: if changes are simple, then an automatic merge will speed up development and adding new features
Automatic merging cons: CAn result in conflicts that need careful resolution.
Manual process: time consuming and need to ensure logic carefully followed